FS Intro to Node

1. What is node?
	- A program that allows you to run js outisde the browser
	- A JS runtime enviornment 
	- Allows code to run on an operating system rather than a server
	- Uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model

1.1 Modules
	- A Node module is a JS library specific to the Node ecosystem
	- An object
	- `exports`
	- `require`
	```__dirname
	__filename
	module
	require```

2. What is a server?
	- listens to requests
	- responds to those requests
	- like a "server" at a restaurant--you tell the server what you want, and the server either gives it to you or gives you an error message

3. Program vs. Process
	- program is code, like a recipe
	- process is running the code, the cake itself
	- program is data; process is excecution

	Is a process the same as a thread?

4. Asynchronous Coding
	- handle tasks concurrently
	- delegate tasks
	- functions are executed independent of the order in which they are declared
	- often follow this callback pater `asynchThing(function(err, func))`
	- Callstack has to be empty before async functions run

5. FS module
	- filestrewam module
	- reading/writing functions to a string
	- readFile is an example of an async function
			``` const {readFile} = fs; //this is asynchronous because we don't know how long it will take to read a file, it could be from a far away server
			let prediction;
			readFile('.characters.tst', 'utf8', (err, data) => {
				if (err) {
					console.log("oops")
				} else {
					prediction = data
					console.log("this prediction is fulfilled") //fulfilled
				}
			})
			console.log("This is my unfulfilled", prediction) //not fulfilled bc it is exceuted before the read file 
			```

5. Single vs. Multi Threaded
	- js is single-threaded, but node allows for async execution

6. The Event Loop (or Callstack)
	- Requires two data structures:
		1. Stacks
			- first in, last out (FILO)
		2. Quese
			- first in, first out (FIFO)
	- Executes functions in a non-blocking manner

The `require` function
	- tells the machine in needs to import something (a module? a library?)
	-finds, executes, importas 
	- you can leave off the .js in the file path
	path to directory will look for index.js

npm
	- package manager (like homebrew)
	- manages dependencies 

package.json
	- like a table of contents 
	- lists dependencies, among other things
	- Use a CLI to write the package.json ourselves

package.lock
	- library of our depdendencies' dependencies
	- locks in our dependencies
	- automatically generated by node at `npm install`
	- if it's not working, just delete it; another one will be automatically generated

What are dependencies
	- other applications that our dependency needs to run

Version control
	^ means at least this version

V8 Engine	
	- The engine is an interpreter? (VM) Analogy: it's like the chef running the recipe
	- interprets js as c++

Sierra
	- Operating system for Node

Promises
```
promise.then(function(result) {
  console.log(result); // "Stuff worked!"
}, function(err) {
  console.log(err); // Error: "It broke"
});
```
then(successCaseFunction(),failCaseFunction())


Sample Code:
```
module.exporr = {
	exportFunction()
}

const myModule = require(`(.myModule)

```

Misc
	- it seems like Node is kinda like the Android - lots of open source packages, gets kinda messy, but has a lot of stuff to borrow from
	- Get folders sidebar on Sublime
	- What is an App? Is it the same as a program/process?